Kirk: SPACE:
THE FINAL FRONTIER.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO BOLDLY GO
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 6063.4.
THE ENTERPRISE IS
TRACING THE ORIGIN
OF A MYSTERIOUS
ALIEN SPACE PROBE.
IT APPROACHED
THE FEDERATION HOMEWORLDS,
MADE A SCAN
OF EARTH'S SYSTEM,
AND THEN SIGNALED OUTWARD
INTO SPACE.
BEFORE IT COULD BE INTERCEPTED,
THE PROBE SELF-DESTRUCTED.
WE ARE FOLLOWING A TRAIL
OF DISRUPTED MATTER
LEFT BY THE PROBE'S HIGHLY
ADVANCED PROPULSION SYSTEM.
THUS FAR, THE TRAIL HAS
NOT INTERCEPTED
ANY INHABITED STAR SYSTEMS.
STATUS REPORT, MR. SPOCK.
THE TRAIL IS BECOMING FAINTER,
CAPTAIN.
I RECOMMEND WE REDUCE SPEED
TO ACCOMMODATE OUR SENSORS.
REDUCE SPEED
TO WARP FACTOR 2,
MR. WALKING BEAR.
AYE, SIR. WARP FACTOR 2.
CAPTAIN, SENSORS INDICATE
A VESSEL AT EXTREME RANGE.
COURSE PROJECTION, MR. AREX?
IT'S COMING IN ON THE SAME
COURSE AS THE PROBE, SIR.
HEADING TOWARD US, WARP 3.
NO READINGS YET, CAPTAIN.
POSSIBLY A SECOND PROBE.
HMM.
OR IT COULD BE THE SENDER.
LIEUTENANT UHURA,
ALL STATIONS TO YELLOW ALERT.
STANDARD HAILING
ON ALL FREQUENCIES.
[ALARM BLARING]
-IDENTIFICATION, MR. SPOCK?
-NONE AS YET, SIR.
BUT SENSORS NOW INDICATE
IT IS TWICE OUR SIZE.
VESSEL APPEARS
EXTREMELY UNORTHODOX IN DESIGN.
AND STARFLEET LISTS
NO OTHER AUTHORIZED VESSELS
IN THIS QUADRANT.
REDUCE TO WARP 1,
MR. WALKING BEAR.
WARP 1, SIR.
LIEUTENANT AREX,
ACTIVATE MAIN SCREEN,
EXTREME MAGNIFICATION.
Kirk: ANY CONTACT,
LIEUTENANT UHURA?
-NO RESPONSE, SIR.
-MAINTAIN HAILING.
APPROACHING SHIP HAS
AN IMMENSE ENERGY FIELD
SURROUNDING IT.
FASCINATING.
READINGS INDICATE
THE VESSEL IS COMPOSED
ENTIRELY OF
CRYSTALLINE CERAMIC.
I WOULD ALMOST SAY...
[RUMBLING]
CAPTAIN, WE'RE LOSING SPEED.
THE HELM DOESN'T ANSWER.
WE'RE GOING SUBLIGHT.
Kirk:
BRIDGE TO ENGINEERING.
MR. SCOTT,
WHY ARE WE LOSING SPEED?
Scotty on intercom:
SCOTT HERE, CAPTAIN.
ALL OUR ENGINES ARE
STILL AT FULL THRUST.
BUT IT'S JUST LIKE
WE'RE RAMMING INTO
A WALL OF CLAY.
I DON'T KNOW IF THE SHIP
CAN TAKE THE STRAIN.
ALL ENGINES STOP.
ALL ENGINES STOPPED, SIR.
GIVE ME A DAMAGE REPORT
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE, SCOTTY.
Scotty: I'M STILL CHECKING,
BUT IT'S MINIMAL SO FAR, SIR.
NO STRUCTURAL DAMAGE
OR OVERHEATING.
I THINK WE WERE LUCKY.
BRIDGE TO SICKBAY.
CASUALTY REPORT.
McCOY HERE.
NO SERIOUS INJURIES.
-WHAT THE DEVIL'S GOING ON?
-LATER, BONES.
WE HAVE BEEN ENCASED IN
A GLOBULAR FORCE FIELD, CAPTAIN.
THE SOURCE IS
THE APPROACHING VESSEL.
BUT WE HIT AT WARP 1.
WE SHOULD HAVE BEEN SMASHED.
IT IS A FORCE GLOBE,
BUT ONE THAT IS FLEXIBLE ENOUGH
TO ABSORB ANY FORCE.
I CANNOT EXPLAIN IT.
CLEARLY, WE CANNOT ESCAPE
BY SIMPLY FLEEING.
SENSORS INDICATE
WE ARE NOW BEING PROBED.
CAPTAIN, THERE IT IS.
OTHER VESSEL IS SLOWING.
[RUMBLING]
[ALARM BLARING]
WALKING BEAR,
FULL POWER, ALL SHIELDS.
REVERSE ENGINES
AND GET US AWAY FROM THAT BEAM.
EVASIVE ACTION WILL NOT
BE EFFECTIVE, CAPTAIN.
THE FORCE GLOBE
LIMITS OUR MANEUVERING.
LOCK MAIN PHASERS
ON THAT SHIP AND OPEN FIRE.
SPOCK, STATUS ON OTHER SHIP.
STILL APPROACHING, CAPTAIN.
GOING SUBLIGHT.
IT CONTINUES TO PROBE US.
ITS SURROUNDING ENERGY PATTERN
IS NOW SHIFTING.
HAVE YOU EVER SEEN
ANYTHING LIKE THAT, SPOCK?
I RECOGNIZE IT.
KUKULKAN.
OH!
MR. WALKING BEAR, HOW...
Kukulkan:
I WAS ANGERED BECAUSE I BELIEVED
YOU HAD FORGOTTEN ME.
BUT ONE IN YOUR MIDST
KNOWS MY NAME.
YOU WILL BE GIVEN
ONE CHANCE TO SUCCEED
WHERE YOUR ANCESTORS FAILED.
FAIL ME AGAIN
AND ALL OF YOUR KIND
SHALL PERISH.
MR. WALKING BEAR, HOW DO YOU
KNOW WHO'S ABOARD THAT SHIP?
I AM A COMANCHE, CAPTAIN.
I'VE STUDIED THE HISTORIES
OF MANY ANCIENT EARTH PEOPLES,
ESPECIALLY MY OWN.
THAT SHIP OUT THERE BEARS
A STRONG RESEMBLANCE
TO A GOD IN MAYAN
AND AZTEC LEGENDS, KUKULKAN.
CAPTAIN,
LIBRARY COMPUTER CONFIRMS
THAT ENSIGN WALKING BEAR
IS CORRECT.
THE MAYAS HAD A LEGEND
OF A WINGED SERPENT GOD
WHO CAME FROM THE SKIES,
BRINGING KNOWLEDGE.
SUCH LEGENDS
WERE NOT UNCOMMON
AMONG EARTH'S PEOPLES,
CAPTAIN.
THEN WE COULD BE DEALING
WITH THE BASIS
OF ALL THOSE LEGENDS.
A SPACE TRAVELER
WHO VISITED EARTH
IN PRIMITIVE TIMES.
ENTIRELY POSSIBLE.
BUT WHY WOULD KUKULKAN
WANT TO DESTROY US?
YOU DON'T DESERVE IT, YEOMAN,
BUT YOU'RE GETTING
A FEW DAYS' BED REST.
MR. WALKING BEAR,
WHAT DO THE LEGENDS
SAY ABOUT...
WALKING BEAR.
CAPTAIN, SECURITY REPORTS
THAT MR. SCOTT AND DR. McCOY
HAVE ALSO DISAPPEARED.
WHAT'S HE DOING TO MY CREW?
CAPTAIN.
[BEEPING]
Spock: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 6063.5.
FIRST OFFICER SPOCK
IN TEMPORARY COMMAND.
THE ENTERPRISE IS THE CAPTIVE
OF AN ALIEN LIFE FORM
CALLING ITSELF KUKULKAN.
CAPTAIN KIRK AND THREE
OTHER OFFICERS HAVE VANISHED.
THEY MOST LIKELY
WERE TRANSPORTED
BY KUKULKAN TO HIS SHIP.
WE MUST BE SOMEWHERE
INSIDE THAT OTHER SHIP.
AND US WITHOUT A SINGLE PHASER
OR COMMUNICATOR.
AT LEAST I'VE GOT
MY MEDICAL KIT.
FOR ALL THE GOOD IT IS.
MR. WALKING BEAR, DO THE LEGENDS
SAY WHAT HAPPENED TO KUKULKAN?
NO, SIR. ONLY THAT HE LEFT
AND PROMISED ONE DAY
TO RETURN.
THEN THAT SPACE PROBE
THAT APPROACHED EARTH
MUST HAVE BEEN HIS.
LISTEN.
WE'RE BEING OBSERVED.
WATCHED.
IS THERE ANY WAY SPOCK COULD
GET THROUGH TO US?
I DON'T THINK SO, SIR.
OUR SENSORS COULDN'T
PENETRATE THIS SHIP.
Kukulkan:
NOW I WILL SHOW YOU THE SEEDS
THAT I HAVE SOWN BEFORE.
LEARN FROM THEM.
FIND THEIR PURPOSE IF YOU CAN.
ONLY THEN
WILL I APPEAR BEFORE YOU.
Scotty: I'VE NEVER SEEN
ANYTHING SO BEAUTIFUL.
McCoy:
WHERE DID IT COME FROM?
LET'S FIND OUT.
MR. SPOCK, SHOULDN'T WE
BE TRYING TO FIND OUT
WHAT BECAME OF THE CAPTAIN
AND THE OTHERS?
LIEUTENANT UHURA, YOU ARE
SUPPOSED TO BE MONITORING
THE ALIEN VESSEL.
OUR FIRST PRIORITY IS TO FREE
THE ENTERPRISE AND OURSELVES.
RETURN TO YOUR DUTIES.
Kirk: THEY LOOK LIKE
THE OBELISKS BUILT BY
THE ANCIENT EGYPTIANS.
WITH ONE DIFFERENCE, SIR.
LOOK AT THESE CARVINGS.
THAT'S NOT EGYPTIAN.
Walking Bear:
THIS GATEWAY.
I CAN'T PIN DOWN
WHAT CULTURE IT REPRESENTS.
Kirk: BUT IT'S STILL A CLUE.
THIS CITY IS
ONE GIGANTIC RIDDLE.
KEEP ALERT.
McCoy: NOW THAT WE'RE HERE,
WHAT DO WE DO?
Kirk: OPINION,
MR. WALKING BEAR.
Walking Bear: BEFORE HE LEFT,
KUKULKAN GAVE THE MAYAS
A REMARKABLY ACCURATE
CALENDAR.
HE TOLD THEM TO BUILD A CITY
ACCORDING TO ITS CYCLES.
ON THE DATE
THE CITY WAS FINISHED,
KUKULKAN WAS SUPPOSED
TO RETURN.
THE MAYAS BUILT THEIR CITY
AND WAITED.
KUKULKAN NEVER APPEARED.
KUKULKAN MUST HAVE VISITED
SEVERAL ANCIENT PEOPLES
ON EARTH.
BUT EACH ONE USED
ONLY PARTS OF HIS KNOWLEDGE
TO BUILD THEIR CULTURES.
DOES THAT MEAN THEY ALL TRIED
TO BUILD SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
YES, SIR.
BUT THEY ALL FAILED.
Kirk: IF NO ONE ON EARTH
BUILT THIS CITY EXACTLY RIGHT,
THEN THAT'S WHY
KUKULKAN NEVER CAME BACK.
THE ENTIRE CITY IS OUR KEY.
KUKULKAN SAID HE WOULD APPEAR
ONLY WHEN WE LEARNED
ITS PURPOSE.
THEN THERE HAS TO BE
SOME SORT OF
SIGNALING DEVICE HERE.
THAT'S ODD. I'VE NEVER SEEN
A COMBINATION LIKE THIS BEFORE.
THAT PYRAMID SEEMS TO BE
THE CENTER OF EVERYTHING.
I'M GOING UP THERE.
THE REST OF YOU, SPREAD OUT
AND CIRCLE IT.
LOOK, SIR. ANOTHER TOWER.
AND THERE'S ANOTHER TOWER
DOWN THERE.
THERE MUST BE ONE
AT ALL FOUR CORNERS.
WHAT'S THIS?
LOOKS LIKE
THERE'S A SEAM HERE.
I THINK THE HEAD
CAN BE TURNED.
COME ON, LAD.
GIVE ME A HAND.
THE SUN. THAT'S IT.
SCOTTY, TURN THE HEAD
ALL THE WAY AROUND
AND AIM IT UP HERE.
AYE, SIR.
TURN THE OTHER
HEADS THIS WAY!
BONES, THE SERPENT HEADS!
TURN THEM
TO FACE THE PYRAMID!
I'M COMING DOWN.
THIS IS THE LAST ONE, SIR.
THE WHOLE THING IS
AN ENERGY AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM.
THIS IS KUKULKAN'S
SIGNALING DEVICE.
Kukulkan:
AFTER SCORES OF CENTURIES,
MY DESIGN HAS BEEN FULFILLED.
BEHOLD ME AS I AM.
BEHOLD KUKULKAN.
WHERE ARE YOUR WEAPONS
OF DESTRUCTION?
USE THEM ON ME IF YOU DARE.
WE HAVE NO WEAPONS.
AND IF WE DID, WE WOULD USE THEM
ONLY WITH REASON.
WHERE IS YOUR HATE?
YOU HATE ME,
DO YOU NOT?
WHY DO YOU NOT SPEAK TO ME
OF YOUR HATE?
BUT WE DON'T HATE YOU.
YOU FIRED YOUR WEAPONS AT ME.
WE USED THEM IN SELF-DEFENSE.
YOU FIRED ON US.
I AM YOUR MASTER.
I MAY DO WITH YOU AS I WILL.
DO YOU THINK
WE BELONG TO YOU?
BONES, SCOTTY, QUIET.
IT IS AS I THOUGHT.
YOU HAVE FORGOTTEN ME
AND STRAYED FROM THE PATH
I SET FOR YOU.
YOU SAY THAT WE FORGOT YOU.
HOW CAN YOU EXPECT US
TO REGARD YOU AS A DEITY
IF WE DON'T REMEMBER YOU?
IF YOU DO NOT KNOW ME,
THEN IT IS MY TASK
TO TEACH YOU.
JUST ONCE,
I WISH HE'D LET US
USE THE STAIRS.
WHAT THE DEVIL IS THIS PLACE?
McCoy: IT LOOKS LIKE
SOME KIND OF ZOO.
I DON'T RECOGNIZE
A LOT OF THESE SPECIES, JIM.
PLEASE FEEL FREE TO EXAMINE
ANY OF MY SPECIMENS.
I COULD NEVER BE PROUD
OF PUTTING WEE BEASTIES
IN CAGES.
BUT ALL OF THESE
LEAD A PEACEFUL LIFE,
ONE THAT IS SAFE
AND CONTENTED.
CONTENTED?
CRAMPED IN THESE TINY CAGES?
WHAT YOU CANNOT SEE IS THAT
EACH OF THEM, MENTALLY,
IS IN ITS OWN
NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
THEY EAT,
BREATHE, AND LIVE
IN WORLDS CREATED
BY MY MACHINERY,
WORLDS ONLY THEY CAN SEE.
THEY DO NOT KNOW
THEY ARE IN CAGES.
THEN THAT CITY WE WERE IN
WASN'T REALLY THERE.
EVEN SO,
I WOULD HARDLY CALL YOUR CITY
OUR NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.
IT WAS MEANT TO BE.
THAT CITY AND ALL ELSE,
I TAUGHT TO YOUR ANCESTORS.
BUT THEY BECAME EVIL.
BUT NO ONE BEING,
NOT EVEN YOU,
HAS THE RIGHT TO INTERFERE
WITH OTHER CULTURES.
[SNARLING]
I HAVE BEEN ALONE
ALL MY LIFE.
DESTRUCTION FELL
ON MY RACE
BEFORE YOUR KIND
HAD DISCOVERED FIRE.
CREATURES LIKE THESE HAVE
BEEN MY ONLY COMPANIONS.
I HAVE SEEN YOU
ON MANY WORLDS,
SAVAGE, WAR-LIKE,
FILLED WITH SELF-HATE,
DESTROYING YOURSELVES
IN THE END.
AT LAST,
I DECIDED TO HELP.
AS AN EXPERIMENT,
I VISITED YOUR EARTH
AND TRIED TO TEACH
PEACEFUL WAYS.
I LEFT, INTENDING TO RETURN
WHEN I WAS SUMMONED.
BUT YOU NEVER SENT FOR ME.
FINALLY, I SENT A PROBE.
AND WHAT DID I FIND?
WARRIORS.
BUT WE WORK
ONLY TO CREATE PEACE.
NOTHING YOU HAVE DONE SO FAR
MAKES ME BELIEVE THAT IS TRUE.
MY CREATURES HERE
HAVE LITTLE INTELLIGENCE.
THEY ALONE LIVE PEACEFULLY
IN THE WORLDS I HAVE TO GIVE.
EVEN THIS CREATURE,
ONE OF THE FIERCEST
AND MOST UNTAMABLE
EVER CREATED,
LIVES IN PEACE IN THE WORLD
THAT I CREATE FOR HIM.
GOOD HEAVENS.
THIS IS A CAPELLAN POWER-CAT.
NO ONE'S EVER BEEN ABLE
TO KEEP ONE ALIVE.
WHY, BONES?
THEY HATE CAPTIVITY.
YOU TRY TO PUT
MORE THAN ONE HAND ON THEM
AND THEY THROW OFF
A CHARGE OF 2,000 VOLTS.
HOW DID YOU EVER CAPTURE IT?
IT WAS AN INFANT
AND EASILY CONTROLLED,
AS YOU WERE
WHEN I VISITED EARTH.
YOU STILL ARE
CHILDREN TO ME,
TO BE LED
AND SHOWN HOW TO LIVE.
BUT IF CHILDREN ARE
MADE TOTALLY DEPENDENT
ON THEIR TEACHERS,
THEY WILL NEVER BE
ANYTHING BUT CHILDREN.
ENOUGH! THIS IS USELESS.
DESPITE WHAT
I HAVE SHOWN YOU,
YOU STILL CLING
TO YOUR DISOBEDIENT WAYS.
MY DREAM IS ENDING,
AND ALL OF YOU ARE TO BLAME.
[SNARLS]
OF COURSE.
THE ELASTICITY
OF THE FORCE FIELD
CAN RESPOND IN ONLY
ONE DIRECTION AT A TIME.
ALL HANDS TO BATTLE STATIONS.
[ALARM BLARING]
FULL IMPULSE POWER, HELMSMAN.
TRACTOR BEAM ON,
FULL POWER.
WARP ENGINES ON STANDBY.
MR. AREX,
PREPARE TO COMPENSATE
FOR WARP CATAPULT EFFECT.
WHEN WE BREAK FREE,
WE WILL BE THROWN
APPROXIMATELY 5.698 LIGHT-YEARS.
COMPENSATION FACTORS
LAID IN, SIR.
BUT HOW ARE YOU
GOING TO BREAK FREE?
THE FORCE GLOBE IS FLEXIBLE
IN ONLY ONE DIRECTION
PER UNIT OF TIME.
WE SHALL BOTH PUSH
AND PULL ON IT SIMULTANEOUSLY.
IT SHOULD BECOME
RIGID ENOUGH
FOR A BURST OF WARP POWER
TO SHATTER IT.
FORCE FIELD CONTACT
IN THREE SECONDS, SIR.
FULL WARP POWER
ON MY ORDER. NOW.
REVERSE ENGINES
AND COME ABOUT.
LAY IN SPIRAL EVASIVE COURSE
FOR KUKULKAN'S SHIP.
SOMETHING IS WRONG.
ESCAPED? BUT HOW?
I WILL SMASH IT THIS TIME.
JIM,
THE ENTERPRISE BROKE FREE.
THEN WE'VE GOT TO DISTRACT HIM
AND GIVE SPOCK SOME TIME.
BONES, WHAT WOULD HAPPEN
IF WE PULLED THE CABLES
ON SOME OF THESE CAGES?
MOST OF THE ANIMALS
WOULD JUST LAY THERE.
JIM! THE CAPELLAN POWER-CAT!
COME ON, BONES.
Kukulkan: NO! STOP!
IRRATIONAL SAVAGES.
SEE WHAT YOU HAVE DONE.
KUKULKAN, CAN'T YOU CONTROL
ONE OF YOUR OWN CREATURES?
I CANNOT.
YOUR SHIP HAS DISABLED
MY CENTRAL POWER SOURCE.
JIM, IF THAT'S TRUE,
WE'RE ALL IN TROUBLE.
JIM, DO SOMETHING.
QUICK, YOUR HYPO.
FULL TRANQUILIZER SETTING.
[ROARING]
DID YOU INJECT THAT BEAST
OR YOURSELF?
I'M FINE, BONES.
THE CAT'S LAST POWER JOLT
CLIPPED ME.
IT'S JUST LIKE
A BIG KITTEN.
Scotty: WHAT'S THIS?
MY, AREN'T YOU
THE FRIENDLY LITTLE DARLING.
KUKULKAN, I THINK WE'VE EARNED
THE RIGHT TO BE HEARD.
YOU CONTINUE
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ME.
BUT I AGREE. SPEAK.
YOU THINK OF US
AS BEING SMALL CREATURES
LIKE THIS ONE.
ARE WE REALLY
THAT INFERIOR TO YOU?
NO.
BUT THE VIOLENCE
OF YOUR KIND
SURPASSES EVEN THAT
OF THE POWER-CAT.
WE'D BE FOOLS
IF WE DIDN'T KNOW THAT.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE BEEN
USING OUR MINDS
AND TRYING TO LEARN
TO LIVE IN PEACE.
BECAUSE WE HAVE MINDS, WE CAN'T
BE WHAT YOU WANTED US TO BE.
IF WE FAIL OR SUCCEED,
IT HAS TO BE OUR OWN DOING.
INTELLIGENT LIFE
IS TOO PRECIOUS A THING
TO BE LED BY THE NOSE.
BUT YOU ARE MY CHILDREN.
I HOPED I COULD TEACH YOU,
HELP YOU.
YOU DID, LONG AGO,
WHEN IT WAS NEEDED MOST.
OUR PEOPLE WERE
CHILDREN THEN.
KUKULKAN,
WE'VE GROWN UP NOW.
WE DON'T NEED YOU ANYMORE.
I WILL LET YOU GO
YOUR OWN WAY.
I HAVE ALREADY DONE
WHAT I CAN.
INTERESTING, CAPTAIN.
THE CREATURE WAS THE MAYAN GOD
FROM THE ANCIENT LEGENDS.
AND THE TOLTECS'
QUETZALCOATL,
THE CHINESE DRAGON,
AND ALL THE REST.
BUT NOT QUITE A GOD.
JUST AN OLD, LONELY BEING
WHO WANTED TO HELP OTHERS.
SPOCK, I WOULDN'T SUPPOSE
THAT VULCAN HAS LEGENDS
LIKE THOSE?
NOT LEGENDS, DOCTOR. FACT.
VULCAN WAS VISITED
BY ALIEN BEINGS.
THEY LEFT MUCH WISER.
THE OTHER SHIP IS
GETTING UNDERWAY, SIR.
HEADING AWAY FROM EARTH.
IT'S SAD.
THINK WHAT WE COULD HAVE DONE
WITH HIS KNOWLEDGE.
BUT THE PRICE
WAS JUST TOO HIGH.
I THINK I KNOW
HOW HE FELT, JIM.
THERE'S A LINE
FROM SHAKESPEARE.
YES, BONES.
I REMEMBER IT.
"HOW SHARPER THAN
A SERPENT'S TOOTH IT IS
TO HAVE A THANKLESS CHILD!"
INDEED, CAPTAIN.
LAY IN A COURSE
FOR STARBASE 21.
ALL AHEAD, WARP 2.